=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::FileSystem - POSIX for the file-system

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::FileSystem
   is a POSIX::1003

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::FileSystem qw(access R_OK);
  if(access($fn, R_OK)) # $fn is readible?

  use POSIX::1003::FileSystem qw(mkfifo);
  use Fcntl ':mode';
  mkfifo($path, S_IRUSR|S_IWUSR) or die $!;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

You may also need L<POSIX::1003::Pathconf|POSIX::1003::Pathconf>.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

=over 4

=item B<access>(FILENAME, FLAGS)

Read C<man filetest> before you start using this function!
Use the C<*_OK> constants for FLAGS.

=item B<lchown>(UID, GID, FILENAMES)

Like C<chown()>, but does not follow symlinks when encountered. Returns
the number of files successfully changed.

B<Warning>, POSIX uses different parameter order:

  # POSIX specification:
  # int lchown(const char *path, uid_t owner, gid_t group);

  # Perl core implementation:
  my $successes = chown($uid, $gid, @filenames);

  use POSIX;
  POSIX::lchown($uid, $gid, $filename) or die $!;

  use POSIX::1003::FileSystem 'lchown';
  my @successes = lchown($uid, $gid, @filenames);

=item B<mkfifo>(FILENAME, MODE)

=item B<utime>(ATIME, MTIME, FILENAMES)

Simply C<CORE::utime()>

B<Warning,> POSIX uses different parameter order:

  POSIX::utime($filename, $atime, $mtime);
  CORE::utime($atime, $mtime, @filenames);

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 Constants from unistd.h

To be used with L<access()|POSIX::1003::FileSystem/"Standard POSIX">

 F_OK          File exists
 R_OK          is readable for me
 W_OK          is writable for mee
 X_OK          is executable for me

=head2 Constants from limits.h

 FILENAME_MAX  Maximum length of a filename

=head2 Constants from stdio.h

 LINK_MAX      Maximum number of hard-links
 MAX_CANON
 NAME_MAX
 PATH_MAX
 TMP_MAX       The minimum number of unique filenames generated
               by tmpnam (and tempnam when it uses tmpnam's name-
               space), or tempnam (the two are separate).

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.04,
built on December 22, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

