=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Limit - POSIX access to ulimit()

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Limit
   is a POSIX::1003

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # ULIMIT support

  use POSIX::1003::Limit; # load all names

  use POSIX::1003::Limit qw(ulimit);
  # keys are strings!
  $size = ulimit('UL_GET');

  use POSIX::1003::Limit qw(ulimit UL_GETFSIZE);
  $ticks  = UL_GETFSIZE;   # constants are subs

  use POSIX::1003::Limit '%ulimit';
  my $key = $ulimit{UL_GETFSIZE};
  $ulimit{_SC_NEW_KEY} = $key_code;
  $ticks  = ulimit($key);

  print "$_\n" for keys %ulimit;

  # RLIMIT support

  use POSIX::1003::Limit ':rlimit';

  my ($cur, $max, $success) = getrlimit('RLIMIT_CORE');
  my ($cur, $max) = getrlimit('RLIMIT_CORE');
  my $cur = RLIMIT_CORE;

  my $success = setrlimit('RLIMIT_CORE', 1e6, 1e8);
  setrlimit('RLIMIT_CORE', 1e6) or die;
  setrlimit('RLIMIT_CORE', RLIM_SAVED_MAX, RLIM_INFINITY);
  RLIMIT_CORE(1e6, 1e8);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides access to the "ulimit" (user limit) and "rlimit"
(resource limit) handling.  On most systems, C<ulimit()> is succeeded
by C<rlimit()> hence provides a very limited set of features.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

=over 4

=item B<getrlimit>(RESOURCE)

example: 

  my ($cur, $max, $success) = getrlimit('RLIMIT_CORE');
  my ($cur, $max) = getrlimit('RLIMIT_CORE');

=item B<setrlimit>(RESOURCE, CUR, [MAX])

  my $success = setrlimit('RLIMIT_CORE', 1e6, 1e8);

=item B<ulimit>(NAME)

Returns the ulimit value related to the NAMEd constant.  The NAME
must be a string. C<undef> will be returned when the NAME is not
known by the system.

example: 

  my $filesize = ulimit('UL_GETFSIZE') || SSIZE_MAX;

=back

=head2 Additional

=over 4

=item B<rlimit_names>()

Returns a list with all known resource names, unsorted.

=item B<ulimit_names>()

Returns a list with all known names, unsorted.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over 4

=item B<%ulimit>

This exported variable is a tied HASH which maps C<UL_*> names
on unique numbers, to be used with the system's C<ulimit()> function.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.03,
built on December 22, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

