=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Pathconf - POSIX access to pathconf()

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Pathconf
   is a POSIX::1003

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf;   # import all

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf 'pathconf';
  my $max    = pathconf($filename, '_PC_PATH_MAX');

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf '_PC_PATH_MAX';
  my $max    = _PC_PATH_MAX($filename);

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf qw(pathconf %pathconf);
  my $key    = $pathconf{_PC_PATH_MAX};
  $pathconf{_PC_NEW_KEY} = $value
  foreach my $name (keys %pathconf) ...

  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf qw(fpathconf);
  use POSIX::1003::FdIO     qw(openfd);
  use Fcntl                 qw(O_RDONLY);
  my $fd     = openfd $fn, O_RDONLY;
  my $max    = fpathconf $fd, '_PC_PATH_MAX';
  my $max    = _PC_PATH_MAX($fd);

  foreach my $pc (pathconf_names) ...

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

=over 4

=item B<fpathconf>(FD, NAME)

Returns the numeric value related to the NAME or C<undef>.

=item B<pathconf>(FILENAME, NAME)

Returns the numeric value related to the NAME or C<undef>.

=back

=head2 Additional

=over 4

=item B<pathconf_names>()

Returns a list with all known names, unsorted.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over 4

=item B<%pathconf>

This exported variable is a tied HASH which maps C<_PC_*> names
on unique numbers, to be used with the system's C<pathconf()>
and C<fpathconf()> functions.

The following constants where detected on your system when the
module got installed.  The second column shows the value which
where returned for a random file at the time.

=back

=for comment
#TABLE_PATHCONF_START

   If you install the module, the table will be filled-in here

=for comment
#TABLE_PATHCONF_END

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.06,
built on December 25, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

