=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Properties - POSIX access to _POSIX_ constants

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Properties
   is a POSIX::1003

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::Properties;     # import all

  use POSIX::1003::Properties 'property';
  $hasnt = property('_POSIX_NO_TRUNC');

  use POSIX::1003::Properties '_POSIX_NO_TRUNC';
  $hasnt = _POSIX_NO_TRUNC;

  use POSIX::1003::Properties '%property';
  my $key = $property{_POSIX_NO_TRUNC};
  $property{_POSIX_NEW} = $value;

  foreach my $prop (property_names) ...

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

There is no system call to retrieve these values: they are defined
in the C sources only.

=head2 Additional

=over 4

=item B<property>(NAME)

Returns the property value related to NAME.

=item B<property_names>()

Returns a list with all known names, unsorted.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over 4

=item B<%property>

This exported variable is a tie HASH which contains the
values related to the system property names.

=back

The following constants where detected on your system when the
module got installed.  The second column shows the value which
where returned at that time.

=for comment
#TABLE_PROPERTY_START

   If you install the module, the table will be filled-in here

=for comment
#TABLE_PROPERTY_END

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.08,
built on December 29, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

