=head1 NAME

POSIX::1003::Sysconf - POSIX access to sysconf()

=head1 INHERITANCE

 POSIX::1003::Sysconf
   is a POSIX::1003

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::1003::Sysconf; # load all names

  use POSIX::1003::Sysconf qw(sysconf);
  # keys are strings!
  $ticks = sysconf('_SC_CLK_TCK');

  use POSIX::1003::Sysconf qw(sysconf _SC_CLK_TCK);
  $ticks  = _SC_CLK_TCK;   # constants are subs

  use POSIX::1003::Sysconf '%sysconf';
  my $key = $sysconf{_SC_CLK_TCK};
  $sysconf{_SC_NEW_KEY} = $key_code;
  $ticks  = sysconf($key);

  print "$_\n" for keys %sysconf;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<sysconf()> interface can be used to query system information
in numerical form, where C<confstr()> returns strings.

=head2 Exporter

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item POSIX::1003::Sysconf-E<gt>B<exampleValue>(NAME)

See L<POSIX::1003/"METHODS">

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Standard POSIX

=over 4

=item B<sysconf>(NAME)

Returns the sysconf value related to the NAMEd constant.  The NAME
must be a string. C<undef> will be returned when the NAME is not
known by the system.

example: 

  my $ticks = sysconf('_SC_CLK_TCK') || 1000;

=back

=head2 Additional

=over 4

=item B<sysconf_names>()

Returns a list with all known names, unsorted.

=back

=head1 CONSTANTS

=over 4

=item B<%sysconf>

This exported variable is a tied HASH which maps C<_SC_*> names
on unique numbers, to be used with the system's C<sysconf()> function.

=back

The following constants where detected on your system when the
module got installed.  The second column shows the value which
where returned at that time.

=for comment
#TABLE_SYSCONF_START

   If you install the module, the table will be filled-in here

=for comment
#TABLE_SYSCONF_END

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.11,
built on January 04, 2012. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2011-2012 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

