=head1 NAME

POSIX::3 - help POSIX::1003 modules

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POSIX::3 qw(:termios :pc PATH_MAX);
  # is short for
  use POSIX::1003::Termios  qw(:all);
  use POSIX::1003::Pathconf qw(:all);
  use POSIX::1003::FS       qw(PATH_MAX);

  # overview about all exported symbols (by a module)
  show_posix_names 'POSIX::1003::Pathconf';
  show_posix_names ':pc';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Exporter

=head3 EXPORT_TAGS

  :all                  (all symbols, default)
  :cs      :confstr     POSIX::1003::Confstr
  :ev      :events      POSIX::1003::Events
  :fd      :fdio        POSIX::1003::FdIO
  :fs      :filesystem  POSIX::1003::FS
  :limit   :limits      POSIX::1003::Limit
  :locale               POSIX::1003::Locale
  :math                 POSIX::1003::Math
  :none                 (nothing)
  :os      :opsys       POSIX::1003::OS
  :pc      :pathconf    POSIX::1003::Pathconf
  :proc    :processes   POSIX::1003::Proc
  :props   :properties  POSIX::1003::Properties
  :sc      :sysconf     POSIX::1003::Sysconf
  :signals              POSIX::1003::Signals
  :signals :sigaction   POSIX::SigAction
  :signals :sigset      POSIX::SigSet
  :termio  :termios     POSIX::1003::Termios
  :time                 POSIX::1003::Time

This module uses nasty export tricks, so is not based in Exporter.
Some modules have more than one tag related to them, and one tag may
load multiple modules. When you do not specify symbol or tag, then B<all>
are loaded into your namespace(!), the same behavior as POSIX has.

If your import list starts with C<+1>, the symbols will not get into
your own namespace, but that of your caller. Just like
C<$Exporter::ExportLevel> (but a simpler syntax).

  use POSIX::3 ':pathconf';
  use POSIX::3 ':pc';       # same, abbreviated name

  use POSIX::3 qw(PATH_MAX :math sin);

  sub MyModule::import(@)   # your own tricky exporter
  {   POSIX::3->import('+1', @_);
  }

The L<POSIX::1003|POSIX::1003> suite implements access to many POSIX functions. It
can be quite some work to type-in all the explicit C<require> lines. This
module is slower during the import (because it knows the location of each
of the hundreds of symbols) but loads the right modules automatically.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=over 4

=item B<posix_1003_modules>()

Returns the names of all modules in the current release of POSIX::1003.

=item B<posix_1003_names>([MODULES|TAGS])

Returns  all the names, when in LIST content.  In SCALAR context,
it returns (a reference to) an HASH which contains exported names
to modules mappings.  If no explicit MODULES are specified, then all
available modules are taken.

=item B<show_posix_names>([MODULES|TAGS])

Print all names defined by the POSIX::1003 suite in alphabetical
(case-insensitive) order. If no explicit MODULES are specified, then all
available modules are taken.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of POSIX-1003 distribution version 0.05,
built on December 23, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net>.  The code is based on L<POSIX>, which
is released with Perl itself.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Copyrights of the perl code and the related documentation by
2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

